# jenkins-example-integration-tests
This example is based on the [job-dsl project](https://github.com/Ticketfly/jenkins-docker-examples/tree/master/02-job-dsl).

The integration tests ensure that Jenkins is running properly, they run some jobs and verify the console output.

# How does it work?
- Start Jenkins using the docker image.
- Run integration tests, the tests uses the [CLI client](https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/master/cli/src/main/java/hudson/cli/CLI.java) to access Jenkins. The tests consist on invoking groovy scripts on Jenkins and running jobs.
 - [JenkinsInstanceSpec](https://github.com/Ticketfly/jenkins-docker-examples/tree/master/03-integration-tests/src/integration/groovy/com/ticketfly/jenkins/spec/global/JenkinsInstanceSpec.groovy): Verify that Jenkins configuration is correct: Jenkins versions, installed plugins, deployed jobs, startup script executed.
 - [RunJobSpec](https://github.com/Ticketfly/jenkins-docker-examples/tree/master/03-integration-tests/src/integration/groovy/com/ticketfly/jenkins/spec/job/RunJobSpec.groovy): Run some Jenkins jobs and verify that their console output is correct. Use existing jobs or create jobs on the fly using the DSL.

# Integration test files
    .
    ├── src/integration/groovy                                          # Integration tests
    │   ├──  com.ticketfly.jenkins.common.JenkinsCLIWrapper             # Wrapper for the Jenkins CLI
    │   ├──  com.ticketfly.jenkins.spec.JenkinsSpec                     # Base Specification
    │   ├──  com.ticketfly.jenkins.spec.global.JenkinsInstanceSpec      # Test Jenkins configuration 
    │   ├──  com.ticketfly.jenkins.spec.job.RunJobSpec                  # Test Jenkins jobs
    └── build.gradle                                                    # define integration tasks

# Quick start

- `./gradlew runIntegration` Build the docker image, start Jenkins, run integration tests, stop Jenkins.

- `./gradlew integration` Run integration tests. (Jenkins has to be started)

- `./gradlew integration -Dintegration.single=JenkinsInstanceSpec` Run a single spec.

# Why having integration tests for Jenkins?

They are many things that can go wrong when making some changes on the Jenkins docker image:
- Version or plugin upgrade not backward compatible: unfortunately this is not uncommon with Jenkins and its plugin ecosystem. More generally, having integration tests will enable you to upgrade more frequently.
- Error in DSL scripts. Integration tests can verify and run the jobs generated by the DSL, they would fail if the jobs were missing or are incorrect.
- Error during startup script. Like any runtime scripts, the scripts located in [`init.groovy.d`](https://github.com/Ticketfly/jenkins-docker-examples/tree/master/03-integration-tests/jenkins-home/init.groovy.d) can be easy to break and hard to test. In this example, the startup script sets the markup formatter to be HTML. An integration verifies this, the test is called [check configured markup is HTML](https://github.com/Ticketfly/jenkins-docker-examples/tree/master/03-integration-tests/src/integration/groovy/com/ticketfly/jenkins/spec/global/JenkinsInstanceSpec.groovy#L51).

# Requirements

- Docker Version 1.10 or higher.

# Ressources

- [Official Jenkins Docker image](https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker)
- [Spock Framework](https://github.com/spockframework/spock)
